If you were a property developer who went
down to survey an old war bunker on your land,
only to find out it was built over an ancient
burial ground which cursed you with eternal
insanity, what would you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
the property developers, see if we can make
better decisions, and ultimately attempt to
beat the Eternal Curse in, Gehenna: Where
Death Lives.
If you think you could do better, leave a
comment letting me know how.
If you enjoy watching me dissect the actions
of cursed real estate agents, go ahead and
hit those like and subscribe buttons.
We start out following some poor traveler
getting ritually defaced and buried alive.
That’s why you gotta pack heat on your expeditions
to remote areas.
Never know what kind of twisted ass tribes
you might run into.
Nobody is suspicious about travelers disappearing
in Saipan.
Quite the opposite.
A group of developers are scouting it’s
beaches looking for a location to build their
new resort.
The Zillow listing initially looks great.
Cheap beachfront property on a tropical island.
The catch is that it failed to mention anything
about burial grounds, sacrificial chambers,
or accursed lands.
The developers aren’t completely uninformed
though.
Their driver fills them in on the way to the
property.
It’s kind of late to back out now.
Who actually believes stories like Pet Sematary
or Indian Burial Grounds.
It’s all made up bullshit to keep people
off their land.
I’m not saying I wouldn’t still bring
a Glock 19 though.
When Pepe opens the car gate he notices that
one of the doll ornaments has fresh blood
on it.
Maybe someone is trying to scare them off
because they don’t want Mr. Monopoly to
build a giant tourist hotel in their backyard.
Pepe neglects to say anything, not wanting
to be that ‘guy’.
While they are scouting the property with
their drone, they spot a couple indiges roaming
in the forest.
Pepe exclaims that they must be headed to
the old Japanese World War 2 machine gun bunker.
Of course, if they want to build a Sandals
Resort here they’re going to need to check
out this war bunker to ensure it’s not going
to be looming over their bungalows.
The locals aren’t super friendly.
I’m not sure what happened to this guy.
Maybe he pissed off the ancient spirits.
I’m sure it’s just an animal or something.
As the developers who have to give the stamp
of approval for construction of the resort
here, they need to make sure this bunker isn’t
home to anything dangerous.
That doesn’t mean they need to go inside
right now.
It’s obvious something is down there and
they have no training, equipment, or weapons.
Alan’s visibly nervous and suggests sealing
the entrance with concrete.
Tyler says that they need to check it to make
sure it doesn’t run under the property which
might pose structural issues.
Both are valid suggestions, and I can see
how bringing in certified tunnel explorers
might be overkill if the bunker turns out
to be smaller than expected.
The crew crawls in and realizes that the bunker
is just an entry point to an extensive tunnel
network.
Tyler correctly states that they are not equipped
to survey and explore this.
Alan even throws in a complimentary excavation
of the entire bunker once payment is in escrow.
Just when they are about to make the sensible
decision, Paulina presses them onwards.
Calling in an expensive exploration and survey
job for something they might be able to do
themselves could jeopardize her promotion.
I think I’d pass and hang out on the beach
instead.
I’m not sure why Alan and Pepe are tagging
along, they really don’t need to be a part
of this.
Tyler has the most pathetic flashlight I've
ever seen.
Looks like one of those $5 ones you get next
to the cash register at Wal-Mart.
I'm sure he didn’t pack spare batteries
and it will die once they get sufficiently
balls deep into this tunnel network.
There’s a lot of doors, a lot of corridors,
a lot of rooms, and they all look the same.
They really should be using some form of breadcrumbs
or makeshift line markers so they could retrace
their way back out if, when, they got lost.
The semi-good news is that Paulina’s boss
knows where they are and generally when he
should hear from her again.
If they get totally lost or trapped in a cave-in,
they will eventually be found.
It’s no use telling anybody about what you
heard.
They will think you’re hearing things and
push on with or without you.
And it’s far too late to turn back by yourself
now.
Basically, you’re fucked.
He might be able to incite enough dread in
Alan and Pepe to get them to go back outside
with him.
It’s worth a shot.
Of course, they’d be walking towards whatever
is stalking them.
It’s still better to face whatever it is
now than when you're deeper in the tunnels,
more lost, and out of flashlight battery.
Dave stomach’s his concerns and quickly
joins up with the pack.
You definitely don’t want to be in the back
of the group.
Paulina takes point and trips over the remains
of a Japanese soldier because they can’t
see shit with their Wal-Mart flashlights.
No matter, corpses in old Japanese war bunkers
are to be expected.
She pushes them forward to continue surveying.
Paulina is really starting to remind me of
Scarlett in As Above, So Below.
Fearless when she should be fearful.
In the corridor ahead they find more bodies.
What’s somewhat concerning about these bodies
is that one is a civilian female wearing post-war
clothing.
If she wasn’t down here during the war,
why was she down here afterwards and what
the hell did she die from?
It’s not a good picture being painted.
Uh that’s a hard fucking no.
Shut the door and leave.
Whatever this thing is, it wasn’t trapped
down here.
It could have left at any time.
It’s not on them to save whoever is down
here.
Alan can go ahead and call the concrete truck
to seal the entrance.
Jesus christ.
How do you go from being a real estate agent
on a beachfront property to fighting off grotesque
humanoids in old war bunkers.
Whatever you’re getting paid, it’s not
enough.
Paulina tries to hear out what the man-thing
has to say.
I’m going to come back to how it knew Alan’s
name in a second.
But first, bro, why are you being vengeful?
You came at Alan like a crazed lunatic.
What was he supposed to do, give you a fucking
hug.
Have you looked in a mirror recently?
You’re lucky Alan didn’t punch a hole
through your malnourished body.
Okay, the name thing.
It’s quite evident that Alan and this dude
weren’t pals.
Maybe it heard them call his name earlier,
but I doubt it.
The only other way is if the superstitions
were real.
At this point, you might as well assume the
worst and get the hell out.
If I was Alan, I'd be taking the next flight
out of Saipan.
Paulina in an act of egregious unnecessity
puts her face up to his to check if he’s
still breathing.
Who in their right mind would ever think to
do that.
Gee, who could have expected that.
At least malnourished skeletors are easily
overpowered.
He muttered, “your fault”.
This dude is throwing mad accusations at people
he’s never met before.
They’re trying to build a nice resort with
infinity pools overlooking the ocean, and
Paulina was even kind enough to try to help
you.
Not sure how whatever misfortune befell you
is their fault.
Alan tries to destroy the video evidence of
the altercation, thinking it implicates him
in some way.
What judge would watch this footage and not
think Alan’s actions were justified.
This unholy half-dead was already well past
the point of being savable anyways.
While Alan is struggling for the camera, the
old war bunker has a PTSD outburst of its
own.
When they wake up, the lights are on, the
corpses including the man-thing are gone,
and all the shelves were restocked with food.
It’s like they time traveled back to when
the bunker was in operation, and then side-stepped
into the limbo hell variant.
Maybe they got turned around, or the locals
are fucking with them and trying to scare
them off with an extremely elaborate prank.
Implausible, but way more believable than
getting sucked into another dimension.
Everyone, including Paulina, is anxious to
leave the bunker now, but it’s too late.
The door is sealed somehow, even though the
cross bar is unlocked.
Alan and Pepe split up from Paulina, Dave,
and Tyler to look for another exit.
In their search, Alan and Pepe find a now
operational war radio that they might be able
to use to call for help.
Optimistic, but it’s not like they have
a better option.
Paulina’s group finds a much more foreboding
scene.
A blood stained ground with a diary containing
a suicide note, and the man who wrote it.
Okay Ashton Kutcher, you can come out now.
We got Punk’d, this fake dead dude can get
up now.
Please let us out of the old Japanese war
bunker.
No hidden camera crew shows up and that soldier
is confirmed to be super dead.
It’s now dawning on them that something
incredibly sinister and supernatural is going
on.
Alan hurries Tyler to the radio since he’s
the only one that understands Japanese.
I’d have snagged that Nambu pistol on the
way out in case another malnourished freak
charges at me again.
Tyler radios for help, but the only response
is a repeating recorded message of an imperial
order saying that civilians who commit suicide
are given the same spiritual status as soldiers
who die in battle.
Ominous.
I’m with Paulina, let's try another frequency
before going down that route.
Dave tries to calm himself down by getting
some ‘fresh air’ in the hallway after
having a pistol shoved up to his head by a
World War 2 Japanese soldier moments ago.
He doesn’t find any serenity.
He starts hearing his name whispered to him
from the dark ends of the corridors.
Either that PTSD is setting in quick, or you’re
in deep, deep shit.
Tyler tries the radio again and finally gets
a response.
He neglects to tell Paulina about that one.
Everyone’s keeping their evil omens to themselves
so as to not cause panic or look weak.
I think in these situations it’s best to
be forthright.
The more everyone knows, the better their
chances at coming together and defeating whatever’s
after them.
Pepe, being the most superstitious of them
all, stays behind to pray.
He notices that the soldier has one of those
dolls in his shoulder pocket.
Pepe grabbing the knife to stick his spirit
mom with was a good call, but i’m not sure
physical weapons are going to be of any use
against them.
This might be one of those one’s where your
best weapon is protecting your mind against
insanity.
The others are total assholes and leave Pepe
on their search for an exit.
Another great reminder that exploring desolate
uncharted territories with people you don’t
trust is a terrible idea.
They start heading through an opening in the
bunker that leads downwards into a barren
cave, which they themselves remark as not
being created by the Japanese.
Guys, if this wasn’t built by the Japanese,
it probably won’t lead to a potential secondary
bunker entrance, especially since it’s taking
them deeper underground.
Not that looking for a secondary exit would
matter at this point.
They are already trapped and I think they
know it.
This is an evil they are going to have to
face.
In the next room there’s Bojobo dolls painted
on the walls.
According to Dave, who did some handy brushing
up on Saipan’s history before arriving,
these shitty drawings were the first Bojobo
dolls.
Drawn by locals as depictions of their ancient
chief who was buried down here while colonists
ravaged and tormented his bride and the Chamorro
people.
It’s said that the ancient chief is still
down here, alive.
If you had come down here with a guide after
visiting the gift shop to buy fake $10 Bojobo
dolls that were made in China, you’d have
no reason to give a shit or be concerned.
After everything they’ve seen so far, they
should be taking this very seriously.
My takeaway from this story is that they need
to go say hi and see if they can help him
be reunited with his bride.
He should be understanding that they had nothing
to do with that tragedy, and thankful that
kind strangers lended aid.
There should be no need for bloodshed or suffering.
Or he’s just a twisted asshole.
Ya know, there’s two sides to every story,
and I don’t believe your little sob love
version.
You and your wife were probably malevolent
tyrants that the Chamorro people begged the
colonists to remove.
Dave twisted his ankle so they carry him back
to the barracks to rest up.
Alan and Tyler split off to continue searching
for clues, which is where they find Pepe.
He’s not himself anymore.
Alan really should have grabbed that pistol.
Dave’s hallucinations are getting worse.
I’m not sure if Paulina left or Dave entered
some alternate dimension where nobody can
help him.
Paulina is too busy Tik Tok’ing to notice
Dave choking himself to death until the last
minute.
As I suspected, these are demonic hallucinations.
Everyone needs to stay close to physically
prevent each other from falling prey to the
ancient chief’s tormentations.
Dave’s last words before Paulina leaves
him again is that the Bojobo doll he picked
up from the crazy man at the entrance was
the bride, and that they need to reunite it
with the chief Bojobo doll for the curse to
be lifted.
Honestly, that’s their only option and it
sounds plausible.
They just need to stop bitching at each other
and hurry up before they all go insane.
Alan can’t come to terms with his situation
and gets drawn back down to the cave by his
ex-guide Pepe.
Not a good place to be, especially by yourself
with only a lighter in your hand.
Paulina is the last to start hallucinating,
and get’s suckered by some kid’s footsteps
into a back alley.
Not just some kid, her kid who I'm guessing
died in some freak accident that Paulina’s
loosely at fault for.
How is it so hard for people to realize that
they are hallucinating?
Why do they always get suckered by visions
of their dead loved ones in the most unbelievable
situations?
I can understand a mother running to her late
baby's room after ‘hearing’ it cry.
What I can’t understand is that same thing
set in a cursed World War 2 bunker you’re
trapped in.
Tyler pulls Paulina out of it just as Alan
arrives.
Then Tyler has one of the most insidious hallucinations.
Not of a monster or a deceased child.
He hears Alan say horrible things about Paulina,
things Alan never actually said.
They finally come together as a team, realizing
that they are being pit against themselves
and one another.
They need to find that chief Bojobo doll before
they kill themselves like the Japanese soldiers
did.
Tall task in this giant sealed off bunker.
Hopefully it’s still inside and not in some
other bunker a mile away.
The Japanese soldiers killed by this curse
may have done something with it, so their
diaries may hold clues as to its whereabouts.
Sure enough, the soldiers had found the Bojobo
doll, Gehenna, and then all killed themselves
and each other.
The doll’s whereabouts are still unknown
though.
Wait, is Dave still all alone?
Tyler realizes that Dave killed himself with
a knife, the knife that Pepe had.
Is Pepe embodying the cursed spirits or did
Dave find another knife?
Who knows, but Pepe is clearly playing for
the other team.
To make matters worse, Tyler’s shitty flashlight
inevitably dies.
Who knows when the lights will go out, and
with their hallucinations continuing to worsen,
they need to get to that Bojobo doll ASAP
before they’re crawling on their hands and
knees in the dark looking for it with evil
spirits jumpscaring them around every turn.
Paulina and Tyler could be getting close,
they are at the location all the soldier’s
bodies were dumped.
One of them might have the chief’s Bojobo
doll, or unfortunately, it’s likely that
it’s buried further down the tunnels.
Alan shows up and slips a knife into Tyler’s
gut.
He isn’t waiting to get killed by the others
when they go crazy, he’s going to strike
first.
Dave was his first victim.
It’s not a completely insane strategy, except
for the fact that you all are depending on
each other to stay lucid enough to find and
marry both Bojobo dolls.
Paulina escapes down the tunnels where she
finds Pepe.
He has the chief’s Bojobo doll.
She convinces him that peace is an option
if they can tie the dolls together.
Pepe hesitates a couple seconds too long.
Alan’s aggression incites Pepe to sever
the doll's head.
Does destroying the dolls head end the curse,
or doom them.
It’s probably bad.
Alan get’s the upper hand and shoves the
knife through Pepe’s heart.
Pepe’s last words are that he won, which
means he loses.
Pualina and Tyler get the message that in
this place, Gehenna, being the last one alive
is a fate worse than death itself.
That’s why the Japanese soldier killed himself
when they arrived.
She grabs the Nambu and hands it to Tyler
to do the honors.
It doesn’t take long for Alan to realize
he doomed himself as the eternal witness by
forcing Pepe to destroy the doll and being
the last one alive.
Better make yourself cozy in the barracks
until another group of dipshits wanders down
here to take your spot after you commit suicide
for the final time.
Ya know, you might be able to put the chief
doll back together and then tie it to the
bride doll to end the curse.
Wouldn’t that be a twist.
Everyone kills themselves to avoid eternal
torture, and then Alan just Elmers glues the
doll back together to break the curse and
waltz out of the bunker.
The movie ends with Alan coming full circle
70 years later trying to warn his younger
self.
Let’s recap the pivotal points where different
decisions could have altered who lived and
died.
This gets into sketchy territory with the
whole time travel paradox thing.
What we witnessed was the recurring time loop
after the group initially messed up by going
down into the bunker.
The Japanese soldiers' time loop was mixed
in as well.
It’s like a series of eternal time loops
happening simultaneously.
Dave, Tyler, Paulina, and Pepe all died first,
as did the Japanese soldiers save for the
commander.
This move had the benefit that they weren’t
alive and stuck in the bunker for 70 years,
but they weren’t free’d from it.
They were still stuck in that loop, doomed
to repeat it over and over.
The only way this curse was stopped, is if
Paulina’s group had managed to bind the
Bojobo dolls together.
Otherwise, they and the Japanese soldiers
were doomed for eternity.
Once the curse was broken, it’s not clear
if the dead will come back alive.
Probably not.
After Pepe severed the dolls head, it was
game over.
This curse can likely never be broken.
Any new visitors will be instantly doomed
with no way out.
Even if a total excavation is performed, those
stuck in the time loop may not be freeable
since it’s out of this dimension.
I’m not really sure we could have altered
the events drastically besides not entering
the bunker.
Everyone was inevitably going to go a little
crazy, and none of them really trusted each
other that much from the start.
There was bound to be conflict.
It all came down to Pepe decapitating the
doll, which was a dumbass move.
I loosely get that he wanted vengeance on
Alan and what ‘his type of people’ did
to the Chamorro, but he damned himself and
the others to eternal hell too, just more
intermittent than Alan’s version.
It makes way more sense to break the curse
to save everyone, past, current, and future,
then fight it out with Alan.
If Alan kills you, you aren’t doomed in
a time loop, then Paulina and Tyler can take
care of him.
Their entire strategy of binding the dolls
together relied heavily on Dave’s history
lesson and him grabbing the bride doll at
the entrance before they went inside, Tyler’s
Japanese fluency, and Paulina’s spanish
literacy.
All said and done, I’m not confident.
I’d say the curse from Gehenna is unbeaten.
Thanks for watching, and remember, don’t
explore remote uncharted territory with people
you don’t trust.